📌 Defining Efficiency and Effectiveness 🎯

- Efficiency and effectiveness are two common words among managers and management sessions.
- The meaning of these words in management might be different from it in engineering, systems theory or other science fields.

🔹 Efficiency
- Efficiency is measured according to the amount of resources being used and rising efficiency sometimes means reducing waste of resources.

- Here are some examples for efficiency:
   1️⃣ When you do the same task with less resources being used than yesterday, we can say you are more efficient than yesterday.
   2️⃣ When you give a project to two people and one of them does the project with lesser money or shorter in case of time, we can say he/she had more efficiency.
   3️⃣ When your speed of thought has lessened due to sleeplessness, we can say your efficiency has been reduced.

* Note: Attention that in defining efficiency, it doesn't matter if the work is being done in the right way or not. We care about "amount of resource usage for the current work".

🔹 Effectiveness
- Effectiveness is measured by the amount of the activities being on the same direction as the settled goals.

- Being more effective means, our actions being more on the same direction of our goals.

- Here are some examples for effectiveness:
   1️⃣ Using advertisement space of airports for advertising food is not much effective.
   2️⃣ If we assume the goal of these management courses is to grow powerful managers, these courses have not been effective much.
   3️⃣ Until the key performance indicators (KPI) are not defined, we can't talk about effectiveness of Human resource unit's activities.

- Whether it's personal life or organization, effectiveness could have meaning when missions, vision and goals are defined. Because these elements define the general direction and after direction being specified you can measure and investigate the amount of alignment of activities with desired direction.

🔹 Efficiency vs Effectiveness
- Some people like to say: Efficiency is doing the things right and Effectiveness is to do the right things.
- According to the definition of these words, comparing them doesn't really mean anything.
- It's not bad to remember that:
   1️⃣ Efficiency concern: "How to do the current tasks better and with less waste of resource?"
   2️⃣ Effectiveness concern: "Are the current tasks I'm doing exactly what I should do? Or should I go to other activities?"

🔹 Efficiency and Effectiveness in Personal Life
- Better time management, trying to reduce sleep time, exercising for faster studying, finding faster ways of getting to work or home, finding cheaper stores – they are all in the field of efficiency.
- We sometimes forget to ask ourselves: What is the right path (personal, job) for me? Are my activities aligned with that path?

🔹 Efficiency and Effectiveness in Organization
- The managers who are struggling with efficiency are called operational managers.
- The managers who think also about effectiveness are called strategic managers.
- Strategic managers always ask themselves: Can't we use our resources for better processes?
- The higher level a manager is, the more strategic he/she is expected to be.

📈 What is Productivity?
- Some people say productivity is the sum of efficiency and effectiveness.
- We must remember that efficiency and effectiveness are not the same kind and we can't add them together.
- The sentence 'productivity is the sum of efficiency and effectiveness' is more like a symbol and when we say we are trying to increase the productivity it means we are trying to become better in both efficiency and effectivness.


🕰️ The Relation between Efficiency and Effectiveness with Time Management
- The 0 step of time management is to see what are the things we have to do and what are things that are better not to be done.
- That's why it might be better to instead of looking for time management skill, remember to look for productivity improvement.